v3.1/getting-started/kubernetes/installation/index.md, before:

---
title: Installing Calico on Kubernetes
redirect_from: latest/getting-started/kubernetes/installation/index
canonical_url: 'https://docs.projectcalico.org/v3.1/getting-started/kubernetes/installation/'
---

We provide a number of manifests to get you up and running with {{site.prodname}} in
just a few steps. Refer to the section that corresponds to your desired networking
for instructions.

- [Installing {{site.prodname}} for policy and networking (recommended)](calico)

- [Installing {{site.prodname}} for policy and flannel for networking](flannel)

- [Installing {{site.prodname}} for policy (advanced)](other)

Should you wish to modify the manifests before applying them, refer to
[Customizing the manifests](config-options).

If you prefer not to use Kubernetes to start the {{site.prodname}} services, refer to the
[Integration guide](integration).

Several third-party vendors also provide a variety of {{site.prodname}} installation
methods for different public clouds. Refer to the section that corresponds to your provider
for more details.

- [Amazon Web Services (AWS)](aws)

- [Google Compute Engine (GCE)](gce)

- [Azure](azure)

Commit message:

Copy IBM cloud docs in master to v2.6, v3.0, and v3.1
Copy IBM cloud docs in master to v2.6, v3.0, and v3.1 since IBM Cloud
Kubernetes service supports those releases

v3.1/getting-started/kubernetes/installation/index.md, after:

---
title: Installing Calico on Kubernetes
redirect_from: latest/getting-started/kubernetes/installation/index
canonical_url: 'https://docs.projectcalico.org/v3.1/getting-started/kubernetes/installation/'
---

We provide a number of manifests to get you up and running with {{site.prodname}} in
just a few steps. Refer to the section that corresponds to your desired networking
for instructions.

- [Installing {{site.prodname}} for policy and networking (recommended)](calico)

- [Installing {{site.prodname}} for policy and flannel for networking](flannel)

- [Installing {{site.prodname}} for policy (advanced)](other)

Should you wish to modify the manifests before applying them, refer to
[Customizing the manifests](config-options).

If you prefer not to use Kubernetes to start the {{site.prodname}} services, refer to the
[Integration guide](integration).

## Third-party solutions

Several third-party vendors also provide tools to install Kubernetes with {{site.prodname}} in a variety of
environments.

| Name                                 | Description |
|--------------------------------------|-------------|
| [ACS Engine][acs-engine]             | Deploys Kubernetes clusters on Azure with an option to enable {{site.prodname}} policy. |
| [Google Container Engine][gke]       | A managed Kubernetes environment by Google using {{site.prodname}} for network policy. |
| [Heptio AWS Quickstart][heptio]      | Uses kubeadm and CloudFormation to build Kubernetes clusters on AWS using {{site.prodname}} for networking and network policy enforcement. |
| [IBM Cloud Kubernetes Service][ibmk] | A managed Kubernetes environment by IBM using {{site.prodname}} for networking and network policy enforcement. |
| [Kismatic Enterprise Toolkit][ket]   | Fully-automated, production-grade Kubernetes operations on AWS and other clouds. |
| [Kops][kops]                         | A popular Kubernetes project for launching production-ready clusters on AWS, as well as other public and private cloud environments. |
| [Kubernetes kube-up][kube-up]        | Deploys {{site.prodname}} on GCE using the same underlying open-source infrastructure as Google's GKE platform. |
| [Kubespray][kubespray]               | A Kubernetes project for deploying Kubernetes on GCE. |
| [StackPointCloud][stackpoint]        | Deploys a Kubernetes cluster with {{site.prodname}} to AWS in 3 steps using a web-based interface. |
| [Typhoon][typhoon]                   | Deploys free and minimal Kubernetes clusters with Terraform. |

[acs-engine]: https://github.com/Azure/acs-engine/blob/master/docs/kubernetes.md
[gke]: https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine/docs/how-to/network-policy
[heptio]: https://s3.amazonaws.com/quickstart-reference/heptio/latest/doc/heptio-kubernetes-on-the-aws-cloud.pdf
[ibmk]: https://www.ibm.com/cloud/container-service/
[ket]: https://apprenda.com/kismatic/
[kops]: https://github.com/kubernetes/kops/blob/master/docs/networking.md#calico-example-for-cni-and-network-policy
[kubespray]: https://github.com/kubernetes-incubator/kubespray
[kube-up]: http://kubernetes.io/docs/getting-started-guides/network-policy/calico/
[stackpoint]: https://stackpoint.io/#/
[typhoon]: https://typhoon.psdn.io/
