master/reference/calicoctl/commands/convert.md, before:

---
title: calicoctl convert
canonical_url: 'https://docs.projectcalico.org/v3.3/reference/calicoctl/commands/convert'
---

This sections describes the `calicoctl convert` command.

Read the [calicoctl command line interface user reference]({{site.baseurl}}/{{page.version}}/reference/calicoctl/) 
for a full list of calicoctl commands.

> **Note**: The available actions for a specific resource type may be 
> limited based on the datastore used for {{site.prodname}} (etcdv3 / Kubernetes API). 
> Please refer to the 
> [Resources section]({{site.baseurl}}/{{page.version}}/reference/calicoctl/resources/)
> for details about each resource type.
{: .alert .alert-info}


## Displaying the help text for 'calicoctl convert' command

Run `calicoctl convert --help` to display the following help menu for the 
command.

```
Usage:
  calicoctl convert --filename=<FILENAME>
                [--output=<OUTPUT>] [--ignore-validation]

Examples:
  # Convert the contents of policy.yaml to v3 policy.
  calicoctl convert -f ./policy.yaml -o yaml

  # Convert a policy based on the JSON passed into stdin.
  cat policy.json | calicoctl convert -f -

Options:
  -h --help                     Show this screen.
  -f --filename=<FILENAME>      Filename to use to create the resource. If set to
                                "-" loads from stdin.
  -o --output=<OUTPUT FORMAT>   Output format. One of: yaml or json.
                                [Default: yaml]
  --ignore-validation           Skip validation on the converted manifest.


Description:
  Convert config files from Calico v1 to v3 API versions. Both YAML and JSON formats are accepted.

  The default output will be printed to stdout in YAML format.
```

### Examples

```
# Convert a set of resources (of mixed type) from Calico v1 to v3 APIs using the data in resources.yaml.
# By default convert command outputs the converted resources to stdout, but it can be redirected to a file.
$ calicoctl convert -f multi-resource-v1.yaml -o yaml > multi-resource-v3.yaml 

# Convert a policy based on the JSON passed into stdin.
# Result will be printed to stdout.
$ cat policy.json | calicoctl convert -f -
```

### Options

```
-f --filename=<FILENAME>      Filename to use to convert the resource.  If set to 
                              "-" loads from stdin.
-o --output=<OUTPUT FORMAT>   Output format. One of: yaml or json.
                              [Default: yaml]
--ignore-validation           Skip validation on the converted manifest.
```


## See also

-  [Resources]({{site.baseurl}}/{{page.version}}/reference/calicoctl/resources/) for details on all valid resources, including file format
   and schema
-  [calicoctl get]({{site.baseurl}}/{{page.version}}/reference/calicoctl/commands/get) for details on `calicoctl get` command to get the resources.
-  [calicoctl configuration]({{site.baseurl}}/{{page.version}}/reference/calicoctl/setup) for details on configuring `calicoctl` to access
   the {{site.prodname}} datastore.

Commit message:

Adds copy code button and adjusts code samples accordingly

master/reference/calicoctl/commands/convert.md, after:

---
title: calicoctl convert
canonical_url: 'https://docs.projectcalico.org/v3.3/reference/calicoctl/commands/convert'
---

This sections describes the `calicoctl convert` command.

Read the [calicoctl command line interface user reference]({{site.baseurl}}/{{page.version}}/reference/calicoctl/)
for a full list of calicoctl commands.

> **Note**: The available actions for a specific resource type may be
> limited based on the datastore used for {{site.prodname}} (etcdv3 / Kubernetes API).
> Please refer to the
> [Resources section]({{site.baseurl}}/{{page.version}}/reference/calicoctl/resources/)
> for details about each resource type.
{: .alert .alert-info}


## Displaying the help text for 'calicoctl convert' command

Run `calicoctl convert --help` to display the following help menu for the
command.

```
Usage:
  calicoctl convert --filename=<FILENAME>
                [--output=<OUTPUT>] [--ignore-validation]

Examples:
  # Convert the contents of policy.yaml to v3 policy.
  calicoctl convert -f ./policy.yaml -o yaml

  # Convert a policy based on the JSON passed into stdin.
  cat policy.json | calicoctl convert -f -

Options:
  -h --help                     Show this screen.
  -f --filename=<FILENAME>      Filename to use to create the resource. If set to
                                "-" loads from stdin.
  -o --output=<OUTPUT FORMAT>   Output format. One of: yaml or json.
                                [Default: yaml]
  --ignore-validation           Skip validation on the converted manifest.


Description:
  Convert config files from Calico v1 to v3 API versions. Both YAML and JSON formats are accepted.

  The default output will be printed to stdout in YAML format.
```
{: .no-select-button}

### Examples

1. Convert a set of resources (of mixed type) from Calico v1 to v3 APIs using the data in resources.yaml.

   ```bash
   calicoctl convert -f multi-resource-v1.yaml -o yaml > multi-resource-v3.yaml
   ```
   > **Tip**: By default convert command outputs the converted resources to stdout, but it can be redirected to a file.
   {: .alert .alert-success}

1. Convert a policy based on the JSON passed into stdin.

   ```bash
   cat policy.json | calicoctl convert -f -
   ```
   Result will be printed to stdout.

### Options

```
-f --filename=<FILENAME>      Filename to use to convert the resource.  If set to
                              "-" loads from stdin.
-o --output=<OUTPUT FORMAT>   Output format. One of: yaml or json.
                              [Default: yaml]
--ignore-validation           Skip validation on the converted manifest.
```
{: .no-select-button}


## See also

-  [Resources]({{site.baseurl}}/{{page.version}}/reference/calicoctl/resources/) for details on all valid resources, including file format
   and schema
-  [calicoctl get]({{site.baseurl}}/{{page.version}}/reference/calicoctl/commands/get) for details on `calicoctl get` command to get the resources.
-  [calicoctl configuration]({{site.baseurl}}/{{page.version}}/reference/calicoctl/setup) for details on configuring `calicoctl` to access
   the {{site.prodname}} datastore.
