master/getting-started/openstack/installation/redhat.md, before:

---
title: Red Hat Enterprise Linux packaged install
canonical_url: 'https://docs.projectcalico.org/v3.3/getting-started/openstack/installation/redhat'
---

These instructions will take you through a first-time install of
{{site.prodname}}.  If you are upgrading an existing system, please see
[{{site.prodname}} on OpenStack
upgrade]({{site.baseurl}}/{{page.version}}/getting-started/openstack/upgrade)
instead.

There are three sections to the install: installing etcd, adding
{{site.prodname}} to OpenStack control nodes, and adding {{site.prodname}} to
OpenStack compute nodes.  Follow the [Common steps](#common-steps) on each node
before moving on to the specific instructions in the control and compute
sections. If you want to create a combined control and compute node, work
through all three sections.

## Before you begin

- Ensure that you meet the [requirements](../requirements).
- Confirm that you have SSH access to and root privileges on one or more Red Hat
  Enterprise Linux (RHEL) hosts.
- Make sure you have working DNS between the RHEL hosts (use `/etc/hosts` if you
  don't have DNS on your network).
- [Install OpenStack with Neutron and ML2 networking](http://docs.openstack.org)
  on the RHEL hosts.

## Common steps

Some steps need to be taken on all machines being installed with {{site.prodname}}.
These steps are detailed in this section.

{% include ppa_repo_name %}

1.  [Add the EPEL repository](https://fedoraproject.org/wiki/EPEL). You may
    have already added this to install OpenStack.

1.  Configure the {{site.prodname}} repository:

    ```
    cat > /etc/yum.repos.d/calico.repo <<EOF
    [calico]
    name=Calico Repository
    baseurl=https://binaries.projectcalico.org/rpm/{{ ppa_repo_name }}/
    enabled=1
    skip_if_unavailable=0
    gpgcheck=1
    gpgkey=https://binaries.projectcalico.org/rpm/{{ ppa_repo_name }}/key
    priority=97
    EOF
    ```

1.  Install the `etcd3gw` Python package, if it is not already installed on
    your system.  `etcd3gw` is needed by {{site.prodname}}'s OpenStack driver
    and DHCP agent, but is not yet RPM-packaged, so you should install it with
    `pip`.  First check in case it has already been pulled in by your OpenStack
    installation.

    ```
    find /usr/lib/python2.7/ -name etcd3gw
    ```

    If you see no output there, install `etcd3gw` with pip.

    ```
    yum install -y python-pip
    pip install etcd3gw
    ```

## etcd install

{{site.prodname}} operation requires an etcd v3 key/value store—this may be
installed on a single machine or as a cluster.  For production you will likely
want multiple nodes for greater performance and reliability; please refer to
[the upstream etcd docs](https://coreos.com/etcd/) for detailed advice and
setup.  Here we present a sample recipe for a single node cluster.

1.  Install etcd, and ensure that it is initially not running:

    ```
    yum install -y etcd
    systemctl stop etcd
    ```

1.  Place the following in `/etc/etcd/etcd.conf`, replacing `<hostname>`,
    `<public_ip>` and `<uuid>` with their appropriate values for the machine.

    ```
    ETCD_DATA_DIR=/var/lib/etcd
    ETCD_NAME=<hostname>
    ETCD_ADVERTISE_CLIENT_URLS="http://<public_ip>:2379,http://<public_ip>:4001"
    ETCD_LISTEN_CLIENT_URLS="http://0.0.0.0:2379,http://0.0.0.0:4001"
    ETCD_LISTEN_PEER_URLS="http://0.0.0.0:2380"
    ETCD_INITIAL_ADVERTISE_PEER_URLS="http://<public_ip>:2380"
    ETCD_INITIAL_CLUSTER="<hostname>=http://<public_ip>:2380"
    ETCD_INITIAL_CLUSTER_STATE=new
    ETCD_INITIAL_CLUSTER_TOKEN=<uuid>
    ```

    You can obtain a `<uuid>` by running the `uuidgen` tool:

    ```
    # uuidgen
    11f92f19-cb5a-476f-879f-5efc34033b8b
    ```

    If it is not installed, run `yum install -y util-linux` to
    install it.

1.  Launch etcd and set it to restart after a reboot:

    ```
    systemctl start etcd
    systemctl enable etcd
    ```

## Control node install

On each control node, perform the following steps:

1.  Delete all configured OpenStack state, in particular any instances,
    routers, subnets and networks (in that order) created by the install
    process referenced above. You can do this using the web dashboard or
    at the command line.

    > **Tip**: The Admin and Project sections of the web dashboard both
    > have subsections for networks and routers. Some networks may
    > need to be deleted from the Admin section.
    {: .alert .alert-success}

    > **Important**: The {{site.prodname}} install will fail if incompatible state is
    > left around.
    {: .alert .alert-danger}

1.  Edit the `/etc/neutron/neutron.conf` file. In the `[DEFAULT]` section, find
    the line beginning with `core_plugin`, and change it to read `core_plugin =
    calico`.  Also remove any existing setting for `service_plugins`.

1.  Install the `calico-control` package:

    ```
    yum install -y calico-control
    ```

1.  Restart the neutron server process:

    ```
    service neutron-server restart
    ```

## Compute node install

On each compute node, perform the following steps:

1.  Open `/etc/nova/nova.conf` and remove the line from the `[DEFAULT]`
    section that reads:

    ```
    linuxnet_interface_driver = nova.network.linux_net.LinuxOVSInterfaceDriver
    ```

    Remove the lines from the `[neutron]` section setting
    `service_neutron_metadata_proxy` or `service_metadata_proxy` to
    `True`, if there are any. Additionally, if there is a line setting
    `metadata_proxy_shared_secret`, comment that line out as well.

    Restart nova compute.

    ```
    service openstack-nova-compute restart
    ```

    If this node is also a controller, additionally restart nova-api.

    ```
    service openstack-nova-api restart
    ```

1.  If they're running, stop the Open vSwitch services.

    ```
    service neutron-openvswitch-agent stop
    service openvswitch stop
    ```

    Then, prevent the services running if you reboot.

    ```
    chkconfig openvswitch off
    chkconfig neutron-openvswitch-agent off
    ```

    Then, on your control node, run the following command to find the
    agents that you just stopped.

    ```
    neutron agent-list
    ```

    For each agent, delete them with the following command on your
    control node, replacing `<agent-id>` with the ID of the agent.

    ```
    neutron agent-delete <agent-id>
    ```

1.  Install Neutron infrastructure code on the compute host.

    ```
    yum install -y openstack-neutron
    ```

1.  Modify `/etc/neutron/neutron.conf`.  In the `[oslo_concurrency]` section,
    ensure that the `lock_path` variable is uncommented and set as follows.

    ```
    # Directory to use for lock files. For security, the specified directory should
    # only be writable by the user running the processes that need locking.
    # Defaults to environment variable OSLO_LOCK_PATH. If external locks are used,
    # a lock path must be set.
    lock_path = $state_path/lock
    ```

    Add a `[calico]` section with the following content, where `<ip>` is the IP
    address of the etcd server.

    ```
    [calico]
    etcd_host = <ip>
    ```

1.  Stop and disable the Neutron DHCP agent, and install the
    {{site.prodname}} DHCP agent (which uses etcd, allowing it to scale to higher
    numbers of hosts).

    ```
    service neutron-dhcp-agent stop
    chkconfig neutron-dhcp-agent off
    yum install -y calico-dhcp-agent
    ```

1.  Stop and disable any other routing/bridging agents such as the L3
    routing agent or the Linux bridging agent. These conflict
    with {{site.prodname}}.

    ```
    service neutron-l3-agent stop
    chkconfig neutron-l3-agent off
    ... repeat for bridging agent and any others ...
    ```

1.  If this node is not a controller, install and start the Nova
    Metadata API. This step is not required on combined compute and
    controller nodes.

    ```
    yum install -y openstack-nova-api
    service openstack-nova-metadata-api restart
    chkconfig openstack-nova-metadata-api on
    ```

1.  Install the BIRD BGP client.

    ```
    yum install -y bird bird6
    ```

1.  Install the `calico-compute` package.

    ```
    yum install -y calico-compute
    ```

1.  Configure BIRD. By default {{site.prodname}} assumes that you will deploy a
    route reflector to avoid the need for a full BGP mesh. To this end, it
    includes configuration scripts to prepare a BIRD config file with a single
    peering to the route reflector. If that's correct for your network, you can
    run either or both of the following commands.

    For IPv4 connectivity between compute hosts:

    ```
    calico-gen-bird-conf.sh <compute_node_ip> <route_reflector_ip> <bgp_as_number>
    ```

    And/or for IPv6 connectivity between compute hosts:

    ```
    calico-gen-bird6-conf.sh <compute_node_ipv4> <compute_node_ipv6> <route_reflector_ipv6> <bgp_as_number>
    ```

    You will also need to [configure your route reflector to allow
    connections from the compute node as a route reflector
    client]({{site.baseurl}}/{{page.version}}/usage/routereflector).

    If you *are* configuring a full BGP mesh you need to handle the BGP
    configuration appropriately on each compute host. The scripts above can be
    used to generate a sample configuration for BIRD, by replacing the
    `<route_reflector_ip>` with the IP of one other compute host—this will
    generate the configuration for a single peer connection, which you can
    duplicate and update for each compute host in your mesh.

    To maintain connectivity between VMs if BIRD crashes or is upgraded,
    configure BIRD graceful restart. Edit the systemd unit file
    /usr/lib/systemd/system/bird.service (and bird6.service for IPv6):

    -   Add `-R` to the end of the `ExecStart` line.
    -   Add `KillSignal=SIGKILL` as a new line in the `[Service]` section.
    -   Run `systemctl daemon-reload` to tell systemd to reread that file.

    Ensure that BIRD (and/or BIRD 6 for IPv6) is running and starts on
    reboot.

    ```
    service bird restart
    service bird6 restart
    chkconfig bird on
    chkconfig bird6 on
    ```

1.  Create `/etc/calico/felix.cfg` with the following content, where `<ip>` is the IP
    address of the etcd server.

    ```
    [global]
    DatastoreType = etcdv3
    EtcdAddr = <ip>:2379
    ```

1.  Restart the Felix service.

    ```
    service calico-felix restart
    ```

Commit message:

Adds copy code button and adjusts code samples accordingly

master/getting-started/openstack/installation/redhat.md, after:

---
title: Red Hat Enterprise Linux packaged install
canonical_url: 'https://docs.projectcalico.org/v3.3/getting-started/openstack/installation/redhat'
---

These instructions will take you through a first-time install of
{{site.prodname}}.  If you are upgrading an existing system, please see
[{{site.prodname}} on OpenStack
upgrade]({{site.baseurl}}/{{page.version}}/getting-started/openstack/upgrade)
instead.

There are three sections to the install: installing etcd, adding
{{site.prodname}} to OpenStack control nodes, and adding {{site.prodname}} to
OpenStack compute nodes.  Follow the [Common steps](#common-steps) on each node
before moving on to the specific instructions in the control and compute
sections. If you want to create a combined control and compute node, work
through all three sections.

## Before you begin

- Ensure that you meet the [requirements](../requirements).
- Confirm that you have SSH access to and root privileges on one or more Red Hat
  Enterprise Linux (RHEL) hosts.
- Make sure you have working DNS between the RHEL hosts (use `/etc/hosts` if you
  don't have DNS on your network).
- [Install OpenStack with Neutron and ML2 networking](http://docs.openstack.org)
  on the RHEL hosts.

## Common steps

Some steps need to be taken on all machines being installed with {{site.prodname}}.
These steps are detailed in this section.

{% include ppa_repo_name %}

1.  [Add the EPEL repository](https://fedoraproject.org/wiki/EPEL). You may
    have already added this to install OpenStack.

1.  Configure the {{site.prodname}} repository:

    ```
    cat > /etc/yum.repos.d/calico.repo <<EOF
    [calico]
    name=Calico Repository
    baseurl=https://binaries.projectcalico.org/rpm/{{ ppa_repo_name }}/
    enabled=1
    skip_if_unavailable=0
    gpgcheck=1
    gpgkey=https://binaries.projectcalico.org/rpm/{{ ppa_repo_name }}/key
    priority=97
    EOF
    ```

1.  Install the `etcd3gw` Python package, if it is not already installed on
    your system.  `etcd3gw` is needed by {{site.prodname}}'s OpenStack driver
    and DHCP agent, but is not yet RPM-packaged, so you should install it with
    `pip`.  First check in case it has already been pulled in by your OpenStack
    installation.

    ```
    find /usr/lib/python2.7/ -name etcd3gw
    ```

    If you see no output there, install `etcd3gw` with pip.

    ```
    yum install -y python-pip
    pip install etcd3gw
    ```

## etcd install

{{site.prodname}} operation requires an etcd v3 key/value store—this may be
installed on a single machine or as a cluster.  For production you will likely
want multiple nodes for greater performance and reliability; please refer to
[the upstream etcd docs](https://coreos.com/etcd/) for detailed advice and
setup.  Here we present a sample recipe for a single node cluster.

1.  Install etcd, and ensure that it is initially not running:

    ```
    yum install -y etcd
    systemctl stop etcd
    ```

1.  Place the following in `/etc/etcd/etcd.conf`, replacing `<hostname>`,
    `<public_ip>` and `<uuid>` with their appropriate values for the machine.

    ```
    ETCD_DATA_DIR=/var/lib/etcd
    ETCD_NAME=<hostname>
    ETCD_ADVERTISE_CLIENT_URLS="http://<public_ip>:2379,http://<public_ip>:4001"
    ETCD_LISTEN_CLIENT_URLS="http://0.0.0.0:2379,http://0.0.0.0:4001"
    ETCD_LISTEN_PEER_URLS="http://0.0.0.0:2380"
    ETCD_INITIAL_ADVERTISE_PEER_URLS="http://<public_ip>:2380"
    ETCD_INITIAL_CLUSTER="<hostname>=http://<public_ip>:2380"
    ETCD_INITIAL_CLUSTER_STATE=new
    ETCD_INITIAL_CLUSTER_TOKEN=<uuid>
    ```

    You can obtain a `<uuid>` by running the `uuidgen` tool.

    ```bash
    uuidgen
    ```

    It should return a `<uuid>` value such as the following.

    ```bash
    11f92f19-cb5a-476f-879f-5efc34033b8b
    ```
    {: .no-select-button}

    If the `uuidgen` tool is not installed, run `yum install -y util-linux` to
    install it.

1.  Launch etcd and set it to restart after a reboot:

    ```
    systemctl start etcd
    systemctl enable etcd
    ```

## Control node install

On each control node, perform the following steps:

1.  Delete all configured OpenStack state, in particular any instances,
    routers, subnets and networks (in that order) created by the install
    process referenced above. You can do this using the web dashboard or
    at the command line.

    > **Tip**: The Admin and Project sections of the web dashboard both
    > have subsections for networks and routers. Some networks may
    > need to be deleted from the Admin section.
    {: .alert .alert-success}

    > **Important**: The {{site.prodname}} install will fail if incompatible state is
    > left around.
    {: .alert .alert-danger}

1.  Edit the `/etc/neutron/neutron.conf` file. In the `[DEFAULT]` section, find
    the line beginning with `core_plugin`, and change it to read `core_plugin =
    calico`.  Also remove any existing setting for `service_plugins`.

1.  Install the `calico-control` package:

    ```
    yum install -y calico-control
    ```

1.  Restart the neutron server process:

    ```
    service neutron-server restart
    ```

## Compute node install

On each compute node, perform the following steps:

1.  Open `/etc/nova/nova.conf` and remove the line from the `[DEFAULT]`
    section that reads:

    ```
    linuxnet_interface_driver = nova.network.linux_net.LinuxOVSInterfaceDriver
    ```

    Remove the lines from the `[neutron]` section setting
    `service_neutron_metadata_proxy` or `service_metadata_proxy` to
    `True`, if there are any. Additionally, if there is a line setting
    `metadata_proxy_shared_secret`, comment that line out as well.

    Restart nova compute.

    ```
    service openstack-nova-compute restart
    ```

    If this node is also a controller, additionally restart nova-api.

    ```
    service openstack-nova-api restart
    ```

1.  If they're running, stop the Open vSwitch services.

    ```
    service neutron-openvswitch-agent stop
    service openvswitch stop
    ```

    Then, prevent the services running if you reboot.

    ```
    chkconfig openvswitch off
    chkconfig neutron-openvswitch-agent off
    ```

    Then, on your control node, run the following command to find the
    agents that you just stopped.

    ```
    neutron agent-list
    ```

    For each agent, delete them with the following command on your
    control node, replacing `<agent-id>` with the ID of the agent.

    ```
    neutron agent-delete <agent-id>
    ```

1.  Install Neutron infrastructure code on the compute host.

    ```
    yum install -y openstack-neutron
    ```

1.  Modify `/etc/neutron/neutron.conf`.  In the `[oslo_concurrency]` section,
    ensure that the `lock_path` variable is uncommented and set as follows.

    ```
    # Directory to use for lock files. For security, the specified directory should
    # only be writable by the user running the processes that need locking.
    # Defaults to environment variable OSLO_LOCK_PATH. If external locks are used,
    # a lock path must be set.
    lock_path = $state_path/lock
    ```
    {: .no-select-button}

    Add a `[calico]` section with the following content, where `<ip>` is the IP
    address of the etcd server.

    ```
    [calico]
    etcd_host = <ip>
    ```

1.  Stop and disable the Neutron DHCP agent, and install the
    {{site.prodname}} DHCP agent (which uses etcd, allowing it to scale to higher
    numbers of hosts).

    ```
    service neutron-dhcp-agent stop
    chkconfig neutron-dhcp-agent off
    yum install -y calico-dhcp-agent
    ```

1.  Stop and disable any other routing/bridging agents such as the L3
    routing agent or the Linux bridging agent. These conflict
    with {{site.prodname}}.

    ```
    service neutron-l3-agent stop
    chkconfig neutron-l3-agent off
    ```

    Repeat for bridging agent and any others.

1.  If this node is not a controller, install and start the Nova
    Metadata API. This step is not required on combined compute and
    controller nodes.

    ```
    yum install -y openstack-nova-api
    service openstack-nova-metadata-api restart
    chkconfig openstack-nova-metadata-api on
    ```

1.  Install the BIRD BGP client.

    ```
    yum install -y bird bird6
    ```

1.  Install the `calico-compute` package.

    ```
    yum install -y calico-compute
    ```

1.  Configure BIRD. By default {{site.prodname}} assumes that you will deploy a
    route reflector to avoid the need for a full BGP mesh. To this end, it
    includes configuration scripts to prepare a BIRD config file with a single
    peering to the route reflector. If that's correct for your network, you can
    run either or both of the following commands.

    For IPv4 connectivity between compute hosts:

    ```
    calico-gen-bird-conf.sh <compute_node_ip> <route_reflector_ip> <bgp_as_number>
    ```

    And/or for IPv6 connectivity between compute hosts:

    ```
    calico-gen-bird6-conf.sh <compute_node_ipv4> <compute_node_ipv6> <route_reflector_ipv6> <bgp_as_number>
    ```

    You will also need to [configure your route reflector to allow
    connections from the compute node as a route reflector
    client]({{site.baseurl}}/{{page.version}}/usage/routereflector).

    If you *are* configuring a full BGP mesh you need to handle the BGP
    configuration appropriately on each compute host. The scripts above can be
    used to generate a sample configuration for BIRD, by replacing the
    `<route_reflector_ip>` with the IP of one other compute host—this will
    generate the configuration for a single peer connection, which you can
    duplicate and update for each compute host in your mesh.

    To maintain connectivity between VMs if BIRD crashes or is upgraded,
    configure BIRD graceful restart. Edit the systemd unit file
    /usr/lib/systemd/system/bird.service (and bird6.service for IPv6):

    -   Add `-R` to the end of the `ExecStart` line.
    -   Add `KillSignal=SIGKILL` as a new line in the `[Service]` section.
    -   Run `systemctl daemon-reload` to tell systemd to reread that file.

    Ensure that BIRD (and/or BIRD 6 for IPv6) is running and starts on
    reboot.

    ```
    service bird restart
    service bird6 restart
    chkconfig bird on 
    chkconfig bird6 on
    ```

1.  Create `/etc/calico/felix.cfg` with the following content, where `<ip>` is the IP
    address of the etcd server.

    ```
    [global]
    DatastoreType = etcdv3
    EtcdAddr = <ip>:2379
    ```

1.  Restart the Felix service.

    ```
    service calico-felix restart
    ```
