master/usage/configuration/bgp.md, before:

---
title: Configuring BGP Peers
canonical_url: 'https://docs.projectcalico.org/v3.3/usage/configuration/bgp'
---

This document describes the commands available in `calicoctl` for managing BGP.  It covers
configuration of:

-  Global default node AS Number
-  The full node-to-node mesh
-  Route reflector function
-  BGP peers in general
-  Global BGP Peers
-  Node-specific BGP peers

### Concepts

**Autonomous system (AS) number**

The global default node AS number is the AS number used by the BGP agent on a
{{site.prodname}} node when it has not been explicitly specified.  Setting this value
simplifies configuration when your network topology allows all of your {{site.prodname}}
nodes to use the same AS number.

The AS number for a {{site.prodname}} node is determined:

-  by the
   [Node's]({{site.baseurl}}/{{page.version}}/reference/calicoctl/resources/node)
   `spec.bgp.asNumber`, if that is defined;
-  otherwise by the `spec.asNumber` of the default [BGPConfiguration
   resource]({{site.baseurl}}/{{page.version}}/reference/calicoctl/resources/bgpconfig),
   if that is defined;
-  otherwise, is 64512 (which is in the IANA range for private use).

**Node-to-node mesh**

The full node-to-node mesh option provides a mechanism to automatically
configure peering between all {{site.prodname}} nodes.  When enabled, each {{site.prodname}} node
automatically sets up a BGP peering with every other {{site.prodname}} node in the
network.  By default this is enabled.

The full node-to-node mesh provides a simple mechanism for auto-configuring
the BGP network in small scale deployments (say 50 nodes—although this limit
is not set in stone and {{site.prodname}} has been deployed with over 100 nodes in a full
mesh topology).

For large-scale deployments, or for deployments where you require a more specific
BGP topology (e.g., peering with ToR switches) the full node-to-node mesh should be
disabled and explicit BGP peers configured for your {{site.prodname}} nodes.  A BGP peer may
be configured in your {{site.prodname}} network as a global BGP peer or a per-node BGP peer.

**Route reflector function**

A {{site.prodname}} node can be configured to act as a route reflector for other
{{site.prodname}} nodes, at the same time as originating routes for its own workloads.  This
is enabled by setting the
[Node's]({{site.baseurl}}/{{page.version}}/reference/calicoctl/resources/node)
`spec.bgp.routeReflectorClusterID`.  Normally you will also add a label to identify that node
as a route reflector, to make it easy to configure peerings from other {{site.prodname}}
nodes.

It is also possible for {{site.prodname}} nodes to peer with a route reflector outside the
cluster.

**BGP peers in general**

The {{site.prodname}} [BGPPeer
resource]({{site.baseurl}}/{{page.version}}/reference/calicoctl/resources/bgppeer) provides
several ways to say that some set of {{site.prodname}} nodes should peer with other
{{site.prodname}} nodes, or with other BGP speakers identified by IP.  These configurations
can be used in addition to the full node-to-node mesh, or instead of it.  A BGPPeer can
specify that all {{site.prodname}} nodes should have certain peerings, or just one specific
{{site.prodname}} node, or the {{site.prodname}} nodes whose labels match a specified [label
selector]({{site.baseurl}}/{{page.version}}/reference/calicoctl/resources/networkpolicy#selector).
The peers to connect to can be just one peer specified by its IP, or the set of
{{site.prodname}} nodes that match a given label selector.

**Global BGP peers**

This is the case where a BGPPeer's `spec.node` and `spec.nodeSelector` fields are both empty.

A global BGP peer is a BGP agent that peers with every {{site.prodname}} node in the
network.  A typical use case for a global peer might be a mid-scale
deployment where all of the {{site.prodname}} nodes are on the same L2 network and are
each peering with the same route reflector (or set of route reflectors).

**Node-specific BGP peers**

This is the case where a BGPPeer's `spec.node` or `spec.nodeSelector` field is non-empty.

At scale, different network topologies come in to play.  For example, in the [AS per Rack
model]({{site.baseurl}}/{{page.version}}/reference/private-cloud/l3-interconnect-fabric#the-as-per-rack-model)
discussed in the reference material, each {{site.prodname}} node peers with a route reflector
in the Top of Rack (ToR) switch.  In this case the BGP peerings are configured on a per-node
basis, or for a set of nodes as identified by a given [label
selector]({{site.baseurl}}/{{page.version}}/reference/calicoctl/resources/networkpolicy#selector)
(i.e., these are node-specific peers).  In the AS-per-rack model, each {{site.prodname}} node
in a rack will be configured with a node-specific peering to the ToR route reflector.

### Configuring the default node AS number

When creating a {{site.prodname}} node, you can optionally specify an AS number to use for
the node.  If no AS number if specified, the node will use the global default
value.

See [Example](#example) to set the global default AS number.
to set the global default AS number. If no value is configured, the default AS number is 64512.

If all of your {{site.prodname}} nodes are within the same AS, but you require a
different AS number to be used (e.g because you are peering with a border
router), changing the default AS number to the value you require eliminates
the need to explicitly set it on a per {{site.prodname}} node basis.  For more
complicated topologies where you are explicitly setting the AS number on each
node, the default value will not be used and therefore using this command is
not necessary.

> **Note**: Prior to version 2.0.0, `calicoctl` and `{{site.nodecontainer}}` set the global default
> AS number to 64511. Updating your deployment from a pre-2.0.0 version to use
> the 2.0.0+ `calicoctl` and `{{site.nodecontainer}}` container images will not affect the
> global value that was previously set.
{: .alert .alert-info}

### Disabling the full node-to-node BGP mesh

If you are explicitly configuring the BGP topology for your {{site.prodname}} network,
you may wish to disable the full node-to-node mesh. See
[Example](#example)
for instructions to change the `nodeToNodeMeshEnabled` global BGP setting.

If you are building your network from scratch and do not need the full
node-to-node mesh we recommend turning off the mesh before configuring your
nodes.  If you are updating your network from a full-mesh topology to a
different topology (e.g. to start using a cluster of route reflectors to
increase scaling), configure the appropriate peers before disabling the mesh
to ensure continuity of service.

#### Example

**Prerequisite**: `calicoctl` [installed]({{site.baseurl}}/{{page.version}}/usage/calicoctl/install) and [configured]({{site.baseurl}}/{{page.version}}/usage/calicoctl/configure/).

To turn off the full BGP node-to-node mesh or to modify the global AS number, complete
the following steps.

1. Issue the following command to determine if you have a `default` BGP configuration
   resource.

    ```
    calicoctl get bgpconfig default
    ```

1. If the resource _does_ exist, skip to step 3. Otherwise, use the following
   command to create the resource. Before issuing the command, adjust the
   `nodeToNodeMeshEnabled` and `asNumber` lines and values as desired.
   Refer to [BGP Configuration Resource]({{site.baseurl}}/{{page.version}}/reference/calicoctl/resources/bgpconfig) for details about these settings.

    ```
    cat << EOF | calicoctl create -f -
    apiVersion: projectcalico.org/v3
    kind: BGPConfiguration
    metadata:
      name: default
    spec:
      logSeverityScreen: Info
      nodeToNodeMeshEnabled: false
      asNumber: 63400
    ```

    You're done!

1. If the resource _does_ exist, use the following command to retrieve it and save it
   to a file.

    ```
    calicoctl get bgpconfig default --export -o yaml > bgp.yaml
    ```

1. Open the bgpconfig settings file in your favorite editor, modify
   the `nodeToNodeMeshEnabled` or `asNumber` as desired, and save the file.
   Refer to [BGP Configuration Resource]({{site.baseurl}}/{{page.version}}/reference/calicoctl/resources/bgpconfig) for details about these settings.

    ```
    vim bgp.yaml
    ```

1. Replace the existing BGP configuration settings.

    ```
    calicoctl replace -f bgp.yaml
    ```

### Configuring a global BGP peer

If your network topology includes BGP speakers that will be peered with *every*
{{site.prodname}} node in your deployment, you can use the `calicoctl` resource management
commands to set up the peering on your {{site.prodname}} nodes.  We refer to these types
of peer as global peers because they are configured in {{site.prodname}} once (globally)
and {{site.prodname}} will peer every {{site.prodname}} node with these peers.

Two situations where global BGP peer configuration is useful are (1) when adding
a border router that is peering into a full node-to-node mesh, or (2) configuring
a {{site.prodname}} network that uses one or two route reflectors to provide moderate
scale-out capabilities.  In the latter case, each {{site.prodname}} node would peer to
each of the route reflectors and the full node-to-node mesh would be
disabled.

#### Example

To add a global BGP peer at IP address 192.20.30.40 with AS number 64567 run
the following command on any node:

```
cat << EOF | calicoctl create -f -
apiVersion: projectcalico.org/v3
kind: BGPPeer
metadata:
  name: bgppeer-global-3040
spec:
  peerIP: 192.20.30.40
  asNumber: 64567
EOF
```

To view the current list of BGP peers run the following command.

```
calicoctl get bgpPeer
```

It should return something like the following.

```
NAME                  PEERIP         NODE      ASN
bgppeer-global-3040   192.20.30.40   (global)  64567
```

To remove the global BGP peer that you just created run the following command.

```
calicoctl delete bgppeer bgppeer-global-3040
```


### Configuring a node-specific BGP peer

If your network topology requires specific peerings for each {{site.prodname}} node, you
can use the `calicoctl` resource management commands to set up the peers
specific to a {{site.prodname}} node.  We refer to these as node-specific peers.

Configuring node-specific peers is necessary when the BGP topology is more
complicated and requires different peerings on different nodes.  For example,
the
[AS per Rack model]({{site.baseurl}}/{{page.version}}/reference/private-cloud/l3-interconnect-fabric#the-as-per-rack-model)
or
[AS per Compute Server model]({{site.baseurl}}/{{page.version}}/reference/private-cloud/l3-interconnect-fabric#the-as-per-compute-server-model)
described in the reference material.

#### Example

To add a BGP peer at IP address aa:bb::ff with AS number 64514,
peering with {{site.prodname}} node "node1", run the following command on any node:

```
cat << EOF | calicoctl create -f -
apiVersion: projectcalico.org/v3
kind: BGPPeer
metadata:
  name: bgppeer-node-aabbff
spec:
  peerIP: aa:bb::ff
  node: node1
  asNumber: 64514
EOF
```

To view the BGP peer resource that you just created, issue the following command.

```
calicoctl get bgpPeer bgppeer-node-aabbff
```

You should see your new BGP peer resource listed in the response.

```
NAME                 PEERIP      NODE    ASN
bgppeer-node-aabbff  aa:bb::ff   node1   64514
```

To remove the BGP peer run the following command.

```
calicoctl delete bgppeer bgppeer-node-aabbff
```


### Checking the status of the BGP peers

To display the status of all BGP peerings for a specific node, use the
`calicoctl node status` command.  This displays the status of all BGP peers for
that node—this includes the peers that are automatically configured as part
of the full node-to-node mesh and the explicitly configured global peers and
node specific peers.

Understanding the status of the BGP peerings is a useful first step in
diagnosing why routes may not be advertised across your network resulting in
incorrect connectivity between your workloads.

#### Example

To check the status of the peerings on {{site.prodname}} node `"node1"`, SSH into
`"node1"` and run the following command.

```
sudo calicoctl node status
```
It should return something like the following.

```
Calico process is running.

IPv4 BGP status
+--------------+-------------------+-------+----------+-------------+
| PEER ADDRESS |     PEER TYPE     | STATE |  SINCE   |    INFO     |
+--------------+-------------------+-------+----------+-------------+
| 172.17.8.102 | node-to-node mesh | up    | 23:30:04 | Established |
| 10.20.30.40  |       global      | start | 16:28:38 |   Connect   |
|  192.10.0.0  |   node specific   | start | 16:28:57 |   Connect   |
+--------------+-------------------+-------+----------+-------------+

IPv6 BGP status
+--------------+-------------------+-------+----------+-------------+
| PEER ADDRESS |     PEER TYPE     | STATE |  SINCE   |    INFO     |
+--------------+-------------------+-------+----------+-------------+
| aa:bb::ff    | node-to-node mesh | up    | 16:17:26 | Established |
+--------------+-------------------+-------+----------+-------------+
```

### Configuring in-cluster route reflectors

For a larger deployment you can [disable the full node-to-node
mesh](#disabling-the-full-node-to-node-bgp-mesh) and configure some of the nodes to provide
in-cluster route reflection.  Then every node will still get all workload routes, but using a
much smaller number of BGP connections.

1.  Identify one or more {{site.prodname}} nodes to act as route reflectors.  Only one is
    needed so long as that node stays up, but we recommend choosing two or three so that
    correct route propagation can continue if some of them require down time for maintenance.

1.  Modify the [Node
    resource]({{site.baseurl}}/{{page.version}}/reference/calicoctl/resources/node) for each
    of those nodes, to:

    -  set the node's `spec.bgp.routeReflectorClusterID` to a non-empty cluster ID such as
       `224.0.0.1`

    -  add a label indicating that the node is a route reflector.

    For example:

    ```
    calicoctl get node <node_name> --export -o yaml > node.yml

    # Edit node.yml so that it includes:
    metadata:
      labels:
        i-am-a-route-reflector: true
    spec:
      bgp:
        routeReflectorClusterID: 224.0.0.1

    calicoctl apply -f node.yml
    ```

    > **Note**: For a simple deployment, all the route reflector nodes should have the same
    > cluster ID.
    {: .alert .alert-info}

1.  Configure a [BGPPeer
    resource]({{site.baseurl}}/{{page.version}}/reference/calicoctl/resources/bgppeer) to tell
    the other {{site.prodname}} nodes to peer with the route reflector nodes:

    ```
    calicoctl apply -f - <<EOF
    kind: BGPPeer
    apiVersion: projectcalico.org/v3
    metadata:
      name: peer-to-rrs
    spec:
      nodeSelector: !has(i-am-a-route-reflector)
      peerSelector: has(i-am-a-route-reflector)
    EOF
    ```

1.  Configure a [BGPPeer
    resource]({{site.baseurl}}/{{page.version}}/reference/calicoctl/resources/bgppeer) to tell
    the route reflector nodes to peer with each other:

    ```
    calicoctl apply -f - <<EOF
    kind: BGPPeer
    apiVersion: projectcalico.org/v3
    metadata:
      name: rr-mesh
    spec:
      nodeSelector: has(i-am-a-route-reflector)
      peerSelector: has(i-am-a-route-reflector)
    EOF
    ```

    > **Note**: This full mesh between the route reflectors allows this example to be complete
    > on its own, in the sense of propagating all workload routes to all nodes.  Alternatively
    > the route reflectors might not peer with each other directly, but via some upstream
    > devices such as Top of Rack routers.
    {: .alert .alert-info}

Commit message:

Adds copy code button and adjusts code samples accordingly

master/usage/configuration/bgp.md, after:

---
title: Configuring BGP Peers
canonical_url: 'https://docs.projectcalico.org/v3.3/usage/configuration/bgp'
---

This document describes the commands available in `calicoctl` for managing BGP.  It covers
configuration of:

-  Global default node AS Number
-  The full node-to-node mesh
-  Route reflector function
-  BGP peers in general
-  Global BGP Peers
-  Node-specific BGP peers

### Concepts

**Autonomous system (AS) number**

The global default node AS number is the AS number used by the BGP agent on a
{{site.prodname}} node when it has not been explicitly specified.  Setting this value
simplifies configuration when your network topology allows all of your {{site.prodname}}
nodes to use the same AS number.

The AS number for a {{site.prodname}} node is determined:

-  by the
   [Node's]({{site.baseurl}}/{{page.version}}/reference/calicoctl/resources/node)
   `spec.bgp.asNumber`, if that is defined;
-  otherwise by the `spec.asNumber` of the default [BGPConfiguration
   resource]({{site.baseurl}}/{{page.version}}/reference/calicoctl/resources/bgpconfig),
   if that is defined;
-  otherwise, is 64512 (which is in the IANA range for private use).

**Node-to-node mesh**

The full node-to-node mesh option provides a mechanism to automatically
configure peering between all {{site.prodname}} nodes.  When enabled, each {{site.prodname}} node
automatically sets up a BGP peering with every other {{site.prodname}} node in the
network.  By default this is enabled.

The full node-to-node mesh provides a simple mechanism for auto-configuring
the BGP network in small scale deployments (say 50 nodes—although this limit
is not set in stone and {{site.prodname}} has been deployed with over 100 nodes in a full
mesh topology).

For large-scale deployments, or for deployments where you require a more specific
BGP topology (e.g., peering with ToR switches) the full node-to-node mesh should be
disabled and explicit BGP peers configured for your {{site.prodname}} nodes.  A BGP peer may
be configured in your {{site.prodname}} network as a global BGP peer or a per-node BGP peer.

**Route reflector function**

A {{site.prodname}} node can be configured to act as a route reflector for other
{{site.prodname}} nodes, at the same time as originating routes for its own workloads.  This
is enabled by setting the
[Node's]({{site.baseurl}}/{{page.version}}/reference/calicoctl/resources/node)
`spec.bgp.routeReflectorClusterID`.  Normally you will also add a label to identify that node
as a route reflector, to make it easy to configure peerings from other {{site.prodname}}
nodes.

It is also possible for {{site.prodname}} nodes to peer with a route reflector outside the
cluster.

**BGP peers in general**

The {{site.prodname}} [BGPPeer
resource]({{site.baseurl}}/{{page.version}}/reference/calicoctl/resources/bgppeer) provides
several ways to say that some set of {{site.prodname}} nodes should peer with other
{{site.prodname}} nodes, or with other BGP speakers identified by IP.  These configurations
can be used in addition to the full node-to-node mesh, or instead of it.  A BGPPeer can
specify that all {{site.prodname}} nodes should have certain peerings, or just one specific
{{site.prodname}} node, or the {{site.prodname}} nodes whose labels match a specified [label
selector]({{site.baseurl}}/{{page.version}}/reference/calicoctl/resources/networkpolicy#selector).
The peers to connect to can be just one peer specified by its IP, or the set of
{{site.prodname}} nodes that match a given label selector.

**Global BGP peers**

This is the case where a BGPPeer's `spec.node` and `spec.nodeSelector` fields are both empty.

A global BGP peer is a BGP agent that peers with every {{site.prodname}} node in the
network.  A typical use case for a global peer might be a mid-scale
deployment where all of the {{site.prodname}} nodes are on the same L2 network and are
each peering with the same route reflector (or set of route reflectors).

**Node-specific BGP peers**

This is the case where a BGPPeer's `spec.node` or `spec.nodeSelector` field is non-empty.

At scale, different network topologies come in to play.  For example, in the [AS per Rack
model]({{site.baseurl}}/{{page.version}}/reference/private-cloud/l3-interconnect-fabric#the-as-per-rack-model)
discussed in the reference material, each {{site.prodname}} node peers with a route reflector
in the Top of Rack (ToR) switch.  In this case the BGP peerings are configured on a per-node
basis, or for a set of nodes as identified by a given [label
selector]({{site.baseurl}}/{{page.version}}/reference/calicoctl/resources/networkpolicy#selector)
(i.e., these are node-specific peers).  In the AS-per-rack model, each {{site.prodname}} node
in a rack will be configured with a node-specific peering to the ToR route reflector.

### Configuring the default node AS number

When creating a {{site.prodname}} node, you can optionally specify an AS number to use for
the node.  If no AS number if specified, the node will use the global default
value.

See [Example](#example) to set the global default AS number.
to set the global default AS number. If no value is configured, the default AS number is 64512.

If all of your {{site.prodname}} nodes are within the same AS, but you require a
different AS number to be used (e.g because you are peering with a border
router), changing the default AS number to the value you require eliminates
the need to explicitly set it on a per {{site.prodname}} node basis.  For more
complicated topologies where you are explicitly setting the AS number on each
node, the default value will not be used and therefore using this command is
not necessary.

> **Note**: Prior to version 2.0.0, `calicoctl` and `{{site.nodecontainer}}` set the global default
> AS number to 64511. Updating your deployment from a pre-2.0.0 version to use
> the 2.0.0+ `calicoctl` and `{{site.nodecontainer}}` container images will not affect the
> global value that was previously set.
{: .alert .alert-info}

### Disabling the full node-to-node BGP mesh

If you are explicitly configuring the BGP topology for your {{site.prodname}} network,
you may wish to disable the full node-to-node mesh. See
[Example](#example)
for instructions to change the `nodeToNodeMeshEnabled` global BGP setting.

If you are building your network from scratch and do not need the full
node-to-node mesh we recommend turning off the mesh before configuring your
nodes.  If you are updating your network from a full-mesh topology to a
different topology (e.g. to start using a cluster of route reflectors to
increase scaling), configure the appropriate peers before disabling the mesh
to ensure continuity of service.

#### Example

**Prerequisite**: `calicoctl` [installed]({{site.baseurl}}/{{page.version}}/usage/calicoctl/install) and [configured]({{site.baseurl}}/{{page.version}}/usage/calicoctl/configure/).

To turn off the full BGP node-to-node mesh or to modify the global AS number, complete
the following steps.

1. Issue the following command to determine if you have a `default` BGP configuration
   resource.

    ```
    calicoctl get bgpconfig default
    ```

1. If the resource _does_ exist, skip to step 3. Otherwise, use the following
   command to create the resource. Before issuing the command, adjust the
   `nodeToNodeMeshEnabled` and `asNumber` lines and values as desired.
   Refer to [BGP Configuration Resource]({{site.baseurl}}/{{page.version}}/reference/calicoctl/resources/bgpconfig) for details about these settings.

    ```
    cat << EOF | calicoctl create -f -
    apiVersion: projectcalico.org/v3
    kind: BGPConfiguration
    metadata:
      name: default
    spec:
      logSeverityScreen: Info
      nodeToNodeMeshEnabled: false
      asNumber: 63400
    ```

    You're done!

1. If the resource _does_ exist, use the following command to retrieve it and save it
   to a file.

    ```
    calicoctl get bgpconfig default --export -o yaml > bgp.yaml
    ```

1. Open the bgpconfig settings file in your favorite editor, modify
   the `nodeToNodeMeshEnabled` or `asNumber` as desired, and save the file.
   Refer to [BGP Configuration Resource]({{site.baseurl}}/{{page.version}}/reference/calicoctl/resources/bgpconfig) for details about these settings.

    ```
    vim bgp.yaml
    ```

1. Replace the existing BGP configuration settings.

    ```
    calicoctl replace -f bgp.yaml
    ```

### Configuring a global BGP peer

If your network topology includes BGP speakers that will be peered with *every*
{{site.prodname}} node in your deployment, you can use the `calicoctl` resource management
commands to set up the peering on your {{site.prodname}} nodes.  We refer to these types
of peer as global peers because they are configured in {{site.prodname}} once (globally)
and {{site.prodname}} will peer every {{site.prodname}} node with these peers.

Two situations where global BGP peer configuration is useful are (1) when adding
a border router that is peering into a full node-to-node mesh, or (2) configuring
a {{site.prodname}} network that uses one or two route reflectors to provide moderate
scale-out capabilities.  In the latter case, each {{site.prodname}} node would peer to
each of the route reflectors and the full node-to-node mesh would be
disabled.

#### Example

To add a global BGP peer at IP address 192.20.30.40 with AS number 64567 run
the following command on any node:

```
cat << EOF | calicoctl create -f -
apiVersion: projectcalico.org/v3
kind: BGPPeer
metadata:
  name: bgppeer-global-3040
spec:
  peerIP: 192.20.30.40
  asNumber: 64567
EOF
```

To view the current list of BGP peers run the following command.

```
calicoctl get bgpPeer
```

It should return something like the following.

```
NAME                  PEERIP         NODE      ASN
bgppeer-global-3040   192.20.30.40   (global)  64567
```
{: .no-select-button}

To remove the global BGP peer that you just created run the following command.

```
calicoctl delete bgppeer bgppeer-global-3040
```


### Configuring a node-specific BGP peer

If your network topology requires specific peerings for each {{site.prodname}} node, you
can use the `calicoctl` resource management commands to set up the peers
specific to a {{site.prodname}} node.  We refer to these as node-specific peers.

Configuring node-specific peers is necessary when the BGP topology is more
complicated and requires different peerings on different nodes.  For example,
the
[AS per Rack model]({{site.baseurl}}/{{page.version}}/reference/private-cloud/l3-interconnect-fabric#the-as-per-rack-model)
or
[AS per Compute Server model]({{site.baseurl}}/{{page.version}}/reference/private-cloud/l3-interconnect-fabric#the-as-per-compute-server-model)
described in the reference material.

#### Example

To add a BGP peer at IP address aa:bb::ff with AS number 64514,
peering with {{site.prodname}} node "node1", run the following command on any node:

```
cat << EOF | calicoctl create -f -
apiVersion: projectcalico.org/v3
kind: BGPPeer
metadata:
  name: bgppeer-node-aabbff
spec:
  peerIP: aa:bb::ff
  node: node1
  asNumber: 64514
EOF
```

To view the BGP peer resource that you just created, issue the following command.

```
calicoctl get bgpPeer bgppeer-node-aabbff
```

You should see your new BGP peer resource listed in the response.

```
NAME                 PEERIP      NODE    ASN
bgppeer-node-aabbff  aa:bb::ff   node1   64514
```
{: .no-select-button}

To remove the BGP peer run the following command.

```
calicoctl delete bgppeer bgppeer-node-aabbff
```


### Checking the status of the BGP peers

To display the status of all BGP peerings for a specific node, use the
`calicoctl node status` command.  This displays the status of all BGP peers for
that node—this includes the peers that are automatically configured as part
of the full node-to-node mesh and the explicitly configured global peers and
node specific peers.

Understanding the status of the BGP peerings is a useful first step in
diagnosing why routes may not be advertised across your network resulting in
incorrect connectivity between your workloads.

#### Example

To check the status of the peerings on {{site.prodname}} node `"node1"`, SSH into
`"node1"` and run the following command.

```
sudo calicoctl node status
```
It should return something like the following.

```
Calico process is running.

IPv4 BGP status
+--------------+-------------------+-------+----------+-------------+
| PEER ADDRESS |     PEER TYPE     | STATE |  SINCE   |    INFO     |
+--------------+-------------------+-------+----------+-------------+
| 172.17.8.102 | node-to-node mesh | up    | 23:30:04 | Established |
| 10.20.30.40  |       global      | start | 16:28:38 |   Connect   |
|  192.10.0.0  |   node specific   | start | 16:28:57 |   Connect   |
+--------------+-------------------+-------+----------+-------------+

IPv6 BGP status
+--------------+-------------------+-------+----------+-------------+
| PEER ADDRESS |     PEER TYPE     | STATE |  SINCE   |    INFO     |
+--------------+-------------------+-------+----------+-------------+
| aa:bb::ff    | node-to-node mesh | up    | 16:17:26 | Established |
+--------------+-------------------+-------+----------+-------------+
```
{: .no-select-button}

### Configuring in-cluster route reflectors

For a larger deployment you can [disable the full node-to-node
mesh](#disabling-the-full-node-to-node-bgp-mesh) and configure some of the nodes to provide
in-cluster route reflection.  Then every node will still get all workload routes, but using a
much smaller number of BGP connections.

1.  Identify one or more {{site.prodname}} nodes to act as route reflectors.  Only one is
    needed so long as that node stays up, but we recommend choosing two or three so that
    correct route propagation can continue if some of them require down time for maintenance.

1.  Modify the [Node
    resource]({{site.baseurl}}/{{page.version}}/reference/calicoctl/resources/node) for each
    of those nodes, to:

    -  set the node's `spec.bgp.routeReflectorClusterID` to a non-empty cluster ID such as
       `224.0.0.1`

    -  add a label indicating that the node is a route reflector.

    For example:

    ```
    calicoctl get node <node_name> --export -o yaml > node.yml
    ```

    Edit node.yml so that it includes:

    ```
    metadata:
      labels:
        i-am-a-route-reflector: true
    spec:
      bgp:
        routeReflectorClusterID: 224.0.0.1
    ```

    Then apply the updated YAML.

    ```
    calicoctl apply -f node.yml
    ```

    > **Note**: For a simple deployment, all the route reflector nodes should have the same
    > cluster ID.
    {: .alert .alert-info}

1.  Configure a [BGPPeer
    resource]({{site.baseurl}}/{{page.version}}/reference/calicoctl/resources/bgppeer) to tell
    the other {{site.prodname}} nodes to peer with the route reflector nodes:

    ```
    calicoctl apply -f - <<EOF
    kind: BGPPeer
    apiVersion: projectcalico.org/v3
    metadata:
      name: peer-to-rrs
    spec:
      nodeSelector: !has(i-am-a-route-reflector)
      peerSelector: has(i-am-a-route-reflector)
    EOF
    ```

1.  Configure a [BGPPeer
    resource]({{site.baseurl}}/{{page.version}}/reference/calicoctl/resources/bgppeer) to tell
    the route reflector nodes to peer with each other:

    ```
    calicoctl apply -f - <<EOF
    kind: BGPPeer
    apiVersion: projectcalico.org/v3
    metadata:
      name: rr-mesh
    spec:
      nodeSelector: has(i-am-a-route-reflector)
      peerSelector: has(i-am-a-route-reflector)
    EOF
    ```

    > **Note**: This full mesh between the route reflectors allows this example to be complete
    > on its own, in the sense of propagating all workload routes to all nodes.  Alternatively
    > the route reflectors might not peer with each other directly, but via some upstream
    > devices such as Top of Rack routers.
    {: .alert .alert-info}
