master/usage/configuration/node.md, before:

---
title: Configuring a Node IP Address and Subnet
canonical_url: 'https://docs.projectcalico.org/v3.3/usage/configuration/node'
---

By default, {{site.prodname}} automatically detects each Node's IP address and subnet.  In most cases,
this auto-detection is enough and you will not need to change the value picked by {{site.prodname}}.
However, there are some scenarios where the default autodetection may not choose the right
address.  For example:

-  Your host has multiple external interfaces.
-  Your host may have multiple IP addresses assigned to each interface.
-  You want to change the subnet configuration of each Node to use {{site.prodname}}'s
   [CrossSubnet IPIP]({{site.baseurl}}/{{page.version}}/usage/configuration/ip-in-ip) feature.
-  You have changed the IP of your host.

This guide explains the various methods for configuring a Node's IP and subnet.

### Understanding {{site.nodecontainer}} IP Autodetection Logic

When `{{site.nodecontainer}}` is started, it determines the IP and subnet configuration using the
following sequence:

-  If an IP and subnet are explicitly specified using the `IP` (or `IP6`) environment variable (passed through
   to the container), the container will use this value *and* update the node
   resource with that value: therefore a query of the node resource will always tell you what
   value the `{{site.nodecontainer}}` container is currently using.
-  If the `IP` (or `IP6`) environment variable is set to `autodetect`, `{{site.nodecontainer}}` will autodetect
   the IP and subnet configuration using the requested autodetection method when the
   container starts, *and* update the node resource with the detected value.
-  If the `IP` (or `IP6`) environment variable is not set, and there *is* an `IPv4Address` (or `IPv6Address`)
   value configured in the node resource, that value will be used for routing.
-  If the `IP` environment variable is not set, and there is no `IPv4Address` value configured in the node
   resource, `{{site.nodecontainer}}` will autodetect an IPv4 address and subnet *and* update the
   node resource with the detected values so that the value is persisted.
-  If the `IP6` environment variable is not set, and there is no `IPv6Address` value configured in the node
   resource, `{{site.nodecontainer}}` will not perform IP6 routing on that node.

> **Note**: If you are starting the `{{site.nodecontainer}}` container using `calicoctl node run` command,
> there is a direct mapping between the command line switches and the environment variables that are
> passed through to the `{{site.nodecontainer}}` container. These are listed below:
>
> | Environment                | CLI                          |
> |----------------------------|------------------------------|
> | `IP`                       | `--ip`                       |
> | `IP6`                      | `--ip6`                      |
> | `IP_AUTODETECTION_METHOD`  | `--ip-autodetection-method`  |
> | `IP6_AUTODETECTION_METHOD` | `--ip6-autodetection-method` |
{: .alert .alert-info}

The following subsections describe different ways to configure your deployment to
specify the IP addresses for your nodes.

#### a) Configure the IP and subnet through environment variables

The IPv4 address and subnet may be explicitly specified using the `--ip` option on
`calicoctl node run` or the `IP` environment variable if you are starting the container
directly.  For IPv6, use the equivalent `--ip6` option and `IP6` environment variable.

If you omit the subnet, it is assumed to be /32 for IPv4 and /128 for IPv6 - it is
recommended to include the subnet information if you specify the IP addresses using
this approach.

For example (if using calicoctl node run):
```
calicoctl node run --ip=10.0.2.10/24
```

#### b) Autodetect the IP and subnet

The `{{site.nodecontainer}}` container can be configured to autodetect the IPv4 address and subnet everytime it
is restarted.  Use a value of `autodetect` for the IP address in the `--ip` option
on `calicoctl node run` or the `IP` environment variable if you are starting the container
directly.

In addition, the `--ip-autodetection-method` argument or the `IP_AUTODETECTION_METHOD`
environment variable can be used to specify the method used to auto detect the host address
and subnet.  See [Configuring {{site.nodecontainer}}]({{site.baseurl}}/{{page.version}}/reference/node/configuration)
and [calicoctl command reference]({{site.baseurl}}/{{page.version}}/reference/calicoctl/commands/node/run)
for details.

For IPv6, use the equivalent `--ip6` and `--ip6-autodetection-method` options,
and `IP6` and `IP6_AUTODETECTION_METHOD` environment variables.

For example (if using calicoctl node run):
```
calicoctl node run --ip=autodetect --ip-autodetection-method=can-reach=8.8.8.8
```

#### c) Manually configure the node resource

The IP addresses may also be set by updating the node resource.

You can use `calicoctl` to query the current configuration and then apply updates.
For example:

```
# Start by querying the current node configuration
$ calicoctl get node node2 -o yaml
- apiVersion: projectcalico.org/v3
  kind: Node
  metadata:
    name: node2
  spec:
    bgp:
      ipv4Address: 10.0.2.10/32
      ipv6Address: fd80:24e2:f998:72d6::/128

# Now reconfigure the node with updated ipv4Address to include the correct
# subnet.
$ calicoctl apply -f - << EOF
- apiVersion: projectcalico.org/v3
  kind: Node
  metadata:
    name: node2
  spec:
    bgp:
      ipv4Address: 10.0.2.10/24
      ipv6Address: fd80:24e2:f998:72d6::/120
EOF
```

> **Note**: If you plan to edit the resource to configure the IP addresses, make sure
> you are not specifying the IP address options or environment variables when starting the
>`{{site.nodecontainer}}` container—otherwise those values will overwrite the values
> configured through the resource.
{: .alert .alert-info}

Commit message:

Adds copy code button and adjusts code samples accordingly

master/usage/configuration/node.md, after:

---
title: Configuring a Node IP Address and Subnet
canonical_url: 'https://docs.projectcalico.org/v3.3/usage/configuration/node'
---

By default, {{site.prodname}} automatically detects each Node's IP address and subnet.  In most cases,
this auto-detection is enough and you will not need to change the value picked by {{site.prodname}}.
However, there are some scenarios where the default autodetection may not choose the right
address.  For example:

-  Your host has multiple external interfaces.
-  Your host may have multiple IP addresses assigned to each interface.
-  You want to change the subnet configuration of each Node to use {{site.prodname}}'s
   [CrossSubnet IPIP]({{site.baseurl}}/{{page.version}}/usage/configuration/ip-in-ip) feature.
-  You have changed the IP of your host.

This guide explains the various methods for configuring a Node's IP and subnet.

### Understanding {{site.nodecontainer}} IP Autodetection Logic

When `{{site.nodecontainer}}` is started, it determines the IP and subnet configuration using the
following sequence:

-  If an IP and subnet are explicitly specified using the `IP` (or `IP6`) environment variable (passed through
   to the container), the container will use this value *and* update the node
   resource with that value: therefore a query of the node resource will always tell you what
   value the `{{site.nodecontainer}}` container is currently using.
-  If the `IP` (or `IP6`) environment variable is set to `autodetect`, `{{site.nodecontainer}}` will autodetect
   the IP and subnet configuration using the requested autodetection method when the
   container starts, *and* update the node resource with the detected value.
-  If the `IP` (or `IP6`) environment variable is not set, and there *is* an `IPv4Address` (or `IPv6Address`)
   value configured in the node resource, that value will be used for routing.
-  If the `IP` environment variable is not set, and there is no `IPv4Address` value configured in the node
   resource, `{{site.nodecontainer}}` will autodetect an IPv4 address and subnet *and* update the
   node resource with the detected values so that the value is persisted.
-  If the `IP6` environment variable is not set, and there is no `IPv6Address` value configured in the node
   resource, `{{site.nodecontainer}}` will not perform IP6 routing on that node.

> **Note**: If you are starting the `{{site.nodecontainer}}` container using `calicoctl node run` command,
> there is a direct mapping between the command line switches and the environment variables that are
> passed through to the `{{site.nodecontainer}}` container. These are listed below:
>
> | Environment                | CLI                          |
> |----------------------------|------------------------------|
> | `IP`                       | `--ip`                       |
> | `IP6`                      | `--ip6`                      |
> | `IP_AUTODETECTION_METHOD`  | `--ip-autodetection-method`  |
> | `IP6_AUTODETECTION_METHOD` | `--ip6-autodetection-method` |
{: .alert .alert-info}

The following subsections describe different ways to configure your deployment to
specify the IP addresses for your nodes.

#### a) Configure the IP and subnet through environment variables

The IPv4 address and subnet may be explicitly specified using the `--ip` option on
`calicoctl node run` or the `IP` environment variable if you are starting the container
directly.  For IPv6, use the equivalent `--ip6` option and `IP6` environment variable.

If you omit the subnet, it is assumed to be /32 for IPv4 and /128 for IPv6 - it is
recommended to include the subnet information if you specify the IP addresses using
this approach.

For example (if using calicoctl node run):
```
calicoctl node run --ip=10.0.2.10/24
```

#### b) Autodetect the IP and subnet

The `{{site.nodecontainer}}` container can be configured to autodetect the IPv4 address and subnet everytime it
is restarted.  Use a value of `autodetect` for the IP address in the `--ip` option
on `calicoctl node run` or the `IP` environment variable if you are starting the container
directly.

In addition, the `--ip-autodetection-method` argument or the `IP_AUTODETECTION_METHOD`
environment variable can be used to specify the method used to auto detect the host address
and subnet.  See [Configuring {{site.nodecontainer}}]({{site.baseurl}}/{{page.version}}/reference/node/configuration)
and [calicoctl command reference]({{site.baseurl}}/{{page.version}}/reference/calicoctl/commands/node/run)
for details.

For IPv6, use the equivalent `--ip6` and `--ip6-autodetection-method` options,
and `IP6` and `IP6_AUTODETECTION_METHOD` environment variables.

For example (if using calicoctl node run):
```
calicoctl node run --ip=autodetect --ip-autodetection-method=can-reach=8.8.8.8
```

#### c) Manually configure the node resource

The IP addresses may also be set by updating the node resource.

Use `calicoctl` to query the current node configuration. An example follows.

```
calicoctl get node node2 -o yaml
```

It should return the configuration of the specified node.

```yaml
- apiVersion: projectcalico.org/v3
  kind: Node
  metadata:
    name: node2
  spec:
    bgp:
      ipv4Address: 10.0.2.10/32
      ipv6Address: fd80:24e2:f998:72d6::/128
```
{: .no-select-button}

Next, reconfigure the node with an ipv4Address updated to include the correct
subnet.

```
calicoctl apply -f - << EOF
- apiVersion: projectcalico.org/v3
  kind: Node
  metadata:
    name: node2
  spec:
    bgp:
      ipv4Address: 10.0.2.10/24
      ipv6Address: fd80:24e2:f998:72d6::/120
EOF
```

> **Note**: If you plan to edit the resource to configure the IP addresses, make sure
> you are not specifying the IP address options or environment variables when starting the
>`{{site.nodecontainer}}` container—otherwise those values will overwrite the values
> configured through the resource.
{: .alert .alert-info}
