v2.6/getting-started/kubernetes/installation/index.md, before:

---
title: Installing Calico on Kubernetes
canonical_url: 'https://docs.projectcalico.org/v3.1/getting-started/kubernetes/installation/'
---

Calico can be installed on a Kubernetes cluster in a number of configurations.  This document
gives an overview of the most popular approaches, and provides links to each for more detailed
information.

## Requirements

Calico can run on any Kubernetes cluster which meets the following criteria.

- The kubelet must be configured to use CNI network plugins (e.g `--network-plugin=cni`).
- The kube-proxy must be started in `iptables` proxy mode.  This is the default as of Kubernetes v1.2.0.
- The kube-proxy must be started without the `--masquerade-all` flag, which conflicts with Calico policy.
- The Kubernetes NetworkPolicy API requires at least Kubernetes version v1.3.0.
- When RBAC is enabled, the proper accounts, roles, and bindings must be defined
  and utilized by the Calico components.  Examples exist for both the [etcd](rbac.yaml) and
  [kubernetes api](hosted/rbac-kdd.yaml) datastores.


## [Calico Hosted Install](hosted)

Installs the Calico components as a DaemonSet entirely using Kubernetes manifests through a single
kubectl command.  This method is supported for Kubernetes versions >= v1.4.0.

## [Custom Installation](integration)

In addition to the hosted approach above, the Calico components can also be installed using your
own orchestration mechanisms (e.g ansible, chef, bash, etc)

Follow the [integration guide](integration) if you're using a Kubernetes version < v1.4.0, or if you would like
to integrate Calico into your own installation or deployment scripts.

## Third Party Integrations

A number of popular Kubernetes installers use Calico to provide networking and/or network policy.

You can find some of them here, organized by cloud provider.

- [Amazon Web Services](aws)
- [Google Compute Engine](gce)
- [Microsoft Azure](azure)

Commit message:

Copy IBM cloud docs in master to v2.6, v3.0, and v3.1
Copy IBM cloud docs in master to v2.6, v3.0, and v3.1 since IBM Cloud
Kubernetes service supports those releases

v2.6/getting-started/kubernetes/installation/index.md, after:

---
title: Installing Calico on Kubernetes
canonical_url: 'https://docs.projectcalico.org/v3.1/getting-started/kubernetes/installation/'
---

Calico can be installed on a Kubernetes cluster in a number of configurations.  This document
gives an overview of the most popular approaches, and provides links to each for more detailed
information.

## Requirements

Calico can run on any Kubernetes cluster which meets the following criteria.

- The kubelet must be configured to use CNI network plugins (e.g `--network-plugin=cni`).
- The kube-proxy must be started in `iptables` proxy mode.  This is the default as of Kubernetes v1.2.0.
- The kube-proxy must be started without the `--masquerade-all` flag, which conflicts with Calico policy.
- The Kubernetes NetworkPolicy API requires at least Kubernetes version v1.3.0.
- When RBAC is enabled, the proper accounts, roles, and bindings must be defined
  and utilized by the Calico components.  Examples exist for both the [etcd](rbac.yaml) and
  [kubernetes api](hosted/rbac-kdd.yaml) datastores.


## [Calico Hosted Install](hosted)

Installs the Calico components as a DaemonSet entirely using Kubernetes manifests through a single
kubectl command.  This method is supported for Kubernetes versions >= v1.4.0.

## [Custom Installation](integration)

In addition to the hosted approach above, the Calico components can also be installed using your
own orchestration mechanisms (e.g ansible, chef, bash, etc)

Follow the [integration guide](integration) if you're using a Kubernetes version < v1.4.0, or if you would like
to integrate Calico into your own installation or deployment scripts.

## Third-party solutions

Several third-party vendors also provide tools to install Kubernetes with {{site.prodname}} in a variety of
environments.

| Name                                 | Description |
|--------------------------------------|-------------|
| [ACS Engine][acs-engine]             | Deploys Kubernetes clusters on Azure with an option to enable {{site.prodname}} policy. |
| [Google Container Engine][gke]       | A managed Kubernetes environment by Google using {{site.prodname}} for network policy. |
| [Heptio AWS Quickstart][heptio]      | Uses kubeadm and CloudFormation to build Kubernetes clusters on AWS using {{site.prodname}} for networking and network policy enforcement. |
| [IBM Cloud Kubernetes Service][ibmk] | A managed Kubernetes environment by IBM using {{site.prodname}} for networking and network policy enforcement. |
| [Kismatic Enterprise Toolkit][ket]   | Fully-automated, production-grade Kubernetes operations on AWS and other clouds. |
| [Kops][kops]                         | A popular Kubernetes project for launching production-ready clusters on AWS, as well as other public and private cloud environments. |
| [Kubernetes kube-up][kube-up]        | Deploys {{site.prodname}} on GCE using the same underlying open-source infrastructure as Google's GKE platform. |
| [Kubespray][kubespray]               | A Kubernetes project for deploying Kubernetes on GCE. |
| [StackPointCloud][stackpoint]        | Deploys a Kubernetes cluster with {{site.prodname}} to AWS in 3 steps using a web-based interface. |
| [Typhoon][typhoon]                   | Deploys free and minimal Kubernetes clusters with Terraform. |

[acs-engine]: https://github.com/Azure/acs-engine/blob/master/docs/kubernetes.md
[gke]: https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine/docs/how-to/network-policy
[heptio]: https://s3.amazonaws.com/quickstart-reference/heptio/latest/doc/heptio-kubernetes-on-the-aws-cloud.pdf
[ibmk]: https://www.ibm.com/cloud/container-service/
[ket]: https://apprenda.com/kismatic/
[kops]: https://github.com/kubernetes/kops/blob/master/docs/networking.md#calico-example-for-cni-and-network-policy
[kubespray]: https://github.com/kubernetes-incubator/kubespray
[kube-up]: http://kubernetes.io/docs/getting-started-guides/network-policy/calico/
[stackpoint]: https://stackpoint.io/#/
[typhoon]: https://typhoon.psdn.io/
